https://developer.zendesk.com/documentation/ticketing/getting-started/common-tasks-for-the-zendesk-support-api/

Default assignee:
By default, Zendesk assigns the ticket to the authenticated user making the API call — in this case, the account tied to ZENDESK_USER_EMAIL. You can see assignee_id: 34512710018717 matches both requester_id and submitter_id, all pointing to the same user. It also gets placed in your default group (group_id).

What is a comment:
In Zendesk, a "comment" is a message attached to a ticket. When creating a ticket, the comment.body you provide becomes the first (opening) message — it's what shows up as the ticket description/body. You can see this in the audit events: it was logged as a Comment event with body: 'The smoke is very colorful.'. Subsequent comments (via PUT requests like in cell 6) add replies to the ticket thread. Setting public: True means the requester can see it; public: False makes it an internal agent note.
Here are the most common tasks performed with the Zendesk API:

- Creating tickets with a custom ticket form
- Migrating ticket data into Zendesk Support
- Creating users in Zendesk Support
- Searching

Tickets API: For Agents (your backend/staff)
Which should you use for a custom form?
The tickets API — because:

Your customers filling out a form aren't logged into Zendesk, they're just visitors
The tickets API lets you pass a requester field to create the customer's profile on the fly (name + email from the form)
You don't need the customer to have a verified Zendesk account first

Requests API: End-users (customers), Customer login

Admin	Full control — manage settings, create forms, add users, configure automations, view all tickets
Agent	The frontline support person — can view, reply to, and resolve tickets assigned to them
Light Agent	Can view tickets and leave internal notes (visible only to the team), but cannot reply to customers
Contributor	Can only leave internal notes on tickets they're specifically CC'd on — very limited access

In Zendesk, a ticket form is the set of fields a customer sees when submitting a support request.

Creating a form means defining what information you want to collect from customers. For example:

A basic form might just have: Subject + Message
A custom form for a software company might have: Subject + Message + Product Version + Error Code + Operating System
Why it matters:

Different issue types can have different forms (e.g., a "Billing Issue" form asks for invoice number; a "Bug Report" form asks for steps to reproduce)
The more relevant info you collect upfront, the faster agents can resolve the ticket without back-and-forth
Relating to your project: Your support-form.html is essentially a custom ticket form — you designed exactly what fields to show (name, email, subject, message). In Zendesk's admin panel, you can build the same thing natively so it's tied directly to Zendesk's ticket system with proper field tracking, dropdowns, and validation.

Zendesk has 6 ticket statuses:
1. New:	Ticket just arrived, no agent has looked at it yet
2. Open:	An agent has seen it and is actively working on it
3. Pending:	Agent replied and is waiting on the customer to respond
4
5. Solved:	Agent (or AI) has resolved the issue — customer can still reopen it by replying
in progress


Key distinctions:

Pending vs On-hold: Pending = waiting for customer. On-hold = waiting for someone else internally. Same idea, different reason.
Solved vs Closed: Solved is "done but recoverable." If the customer replies, it reopens to Open. Closed is final — you'd need to create a follow-up ticket instead.



id: int = Field(sa_column=Column(Integer, primary_key=True, autoincrement=True))

Zendesk will communicate to us when a new email is received
Through webhook
WE get the id and create Ticket with the id

CREATE TABLE ticket_processing (
    zendesk_ticket_id  INTEGER PRIMARY KEY,  -- Zendesk's ID, NOT a UUID you generate
    confidence_score   FLOAT,
    routing_decision   ENUM('auto_resolve', 'human_review', 'escalate'),
    issue_type         TEXT,
    urgency            TEXT,
    processed_at       TIMESTAMP DEFAULT NOW()
);

Zendesk receives ticket from customer
        ↓
Zendesk Trigger fires → POST webhook to your backend
        ↓
Your AI classifies + RAG + generates response
        ↓
        ├─ confidence > 0.85 → PUT to Zendesk (public comment + solve ticket)
        │
        ├─ 0.6–0.85 → PUT to Zendesk (internal note for human review)
        │              + assign to "Review" group
        │
        └─ < 0.6    → PUT to Zendesk (internal note with AI context)
                       + assign to specialist group (Billing/Tech/etc.)

All history, replies, status changes → logged in Zendesk
Your DB → only stores AI processing metadata (confidence, routing decision)

How this maps to your project:

    Ticket comes in → New
    Your webhook receives it, AI starts processing → Open
    AI resolves it → set to Solved via the API
    Escalated to human review → stays Open, assigned to a group
    Human resolves it → Solved
    After ~28 days → automatically Closed

In Zendesk, an agent is a support team member who handles tickets — basically the person whose job is to respond to and resolve customer issues.

What agents can do:

    View and reply to tickets
    Change ticket status (open, pending, solved)
    Assign tickets to other agents or groups
    Leave internal notes for teammates
    Access the customer's history and previous tickets

What agents cannot do (unlike Admins):

    Change account-wide settings
    Create ticket forms or automation rules
    Add/remove other agents

In the context of your project:
Your AI acts as an agent — it reads tickets and posts replies through the Zendesk API using agent credentials (your ZENDESK_USER_EMAIL + ZENDESK_API_TOKEN). When the AI auto-resolves a ticket, it's performing the same API actions a human agent would do manually.

When a ticket needs human review, a real human agent picks it up from their Zendesk dashboard.

What is a "Request" vs a "Ticket"?
They're the same thing, just seen from different perspectives:

Ticket = the agent's view (full control, all fields)
Request = the customer's view (limited — they only see their own stuff)
The Requests API is designed for customers interacting with their own tickets, while the Tickets API is for agents managing all tickets.

3. Creating Anonymous Requests
Lets someone submit a ticket without logging in or having an account. You just omit the auth header and pass a requester object with a name (email is optional).

This must be enabled by an admin first in Zendesk settings.

Example: A visitor on your website fills out your support form without registering — they just type their name and submit. That's an anonymous request.

This is directly relevant to your project — your support-form.html is essentially an anonymous request form. The customer doesn't have a Zendesk account, they just fill in their name and message.
4. Adding Collaborators (on update)
When updating an existing request, you use additional_collaborators to add more people without removing the existing ones.

Example: Mid-conversation, the customer says "can you also include my colleague?" — you add them without wiping the existing collaborators.

When creating a ticket form for end users, Zendesk recommends using the request endpoints 
instead of the ticket endpoints. A request is an end user's perspective of a ticket.

A webhook sends an HTTP request to a specified URL in response to activity in Zendesk Support, Guide, Gather, and Messaging. For example, you can configure a webhook to send requests when a user is deleted or a new ticket is created. You can manage webhooks using Admin Center or the Webhooks API.

Connection methods
There are two ways to connect a webhook to activity in Zendesk:

Subscribe the webhook to one or more Zendesk events. 
Use this connection method to send requests based on organization, user, help center, or community activity. For a list of supported event types, see Webhook event types in the API reference.

Connect the webhook to a trigger or automation. Use this connection method to send requests based on ticket activity.

Important: A webhook that's subscribed to a Zendesk event can't connect to a trigger or automation. Similarly, a webhook that's connected to a trigger or automation can't subscribe to Zendesk events. You can’t change an existing webhook’s connection method.

